feat: docs for kubernetes resource check & kubernetes check (#201)
flanksource/docs: canary-checker/docs/reference/1-kubernetes-resource.mdx

---
title: Kubernetes Resource
sidebar_class_name: popular
---

# <Icon name="k8s" /> Kubernetes Resource

The Kubernetes resource check creates kubernetes resources based on the provided manifests & perform checks on them. Some common use case of this
check would be to see if a service is accessible via the ingress as shown in the example below.

```yaml title="ingress_test.yaml"  file=../../../modules/canary-checker/fixtures/k8s/kubernetes_resource_ingress_pass.yaml

```

:::warning
Since both static resources and non-static resources are deleted by this check, extra care must be taken when providing their manifests.
Example: If a Namespace manifest is provided then this check will delete that namespace.
:::

<HealthCheck
  name="kubernetes"
  edition="standard"
  connection="kubeconfig"
  rows={[
    {
      field: 'resources',
      description: 'Manifests that should be applied',
      scheme: '`[]KubernetesManifest`',
      required: true
    },
    {

>       field: 'static resources',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      field: 'staticResources',
```

      scheme: 'bool',
      description: `When set to true, resources from previous checks will be deleted before every run. 
        Even though the resources are deleted at the end of a check, setting this to \`true\` will guarantee that
        there are no remains from a previous failed run.`
    },
    {
      field: 'waitFor',
      description:
        'Specify the desired state of the static/non-static resources before running the checks',
      scheme: '[WaitFor](#wait-for)'
    }
  ]}
/>

### Check Retries

<Fields
  rows={[
    {
      field: 'delay',
      description: 'Initial delay before the checks are run',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'timeout',
      description: 'Timeout for the check',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'interval',
      description: 'Retry the checks, on failure, on this interval',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    }
  ]}
/>

### Wait For

<Fields
  rows={[
    {
      field: 'expr',
      description: `CEL expression that determines whether all the resources are in their desired state before running checks on them. 
        It receives a \`resources\` array of the static and non-static resources.

>         The default behavior is to wait until all the resources are healthy \`dyn(resources).all(r, k8s.isHealthy(r))\`.`,

Reviewer: I think we should be wating for ready, not for healthy

      scheme: 'CEL'
    },
    {
      field: 'disable',
      description:
        'Disable the default behavior of waiting for resources to be healthy.',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'delete',
      description:
        'When set to true, the check waits for the resources to be deleted',
      scheme: 'bool'
    },
    {
      field: 'timeout',
      description:
        'Timeout to wait for all static & non-static resources to satisfy the expression. _(Default: 10m)_',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'interval',
      description:
        'Interval to check if all static & non-static resources are ready. _(Default: 5s)_',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    }
  ]}
/>

### Templating

> The static and non static resources can be templated. This is helpful to create resources with random names. Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resources` and `staticResources` fields can be templated using Go Text Templates. This is helpful to create resources with random names. Example:
```

> you can setup a resource to create a pod with random name on each check run. This way you don't have to wait for the pod to be deleted on every check.

Reviewer: Can we create this example using a details section

Author: A fixture that showcases templating is in this PR https://github.com/flanksource/canary-checker/pull/1810

:::info

> Templating the **Group**, **Version**, **Kind** & **Namespace** however isn't allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Templating the **Group**, **Version**, **Kind** & **Namespace** fields is not supported on `staticResources` 
```

Author: @moshloop it's not supported in non-static resources as well.

Reviewer: ok

---
title: Kubernetes Resource
sidebar_class_name: popular
---

# <Icon name="k8s" /> Kubernetes Resource

The Kubernetes resource check creates kubernetes resources based on the provided manifests & perform checks on them. Some common use case of this
check would be to see if a service is accessible via the ingress as shown in the example below.

```yaml title="ingress_test.yaml"  file=../../../modules/canary-checker/fixtures/k8s/kubernetes_resource_ingress_pass.yaml

```

> :::warning

Reviewer: Can we create a minimal version of the of the check without a namespace specified, and then move this example + warning to an example called "Creating a new namespace for a check"

      scheme: 'CEL'
    },
    {
      field: 'disable',
      description:
        'Disable the default behavior of waiting for resources to be healthy.',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'delete',
      description:
        'When set to true, the check waits for the resources to be deleted',
      scheme: 'bool'
    },
    {
      field: 'timeout',
      description:
        'Timeout to wait for all static & non-static resources to satisfy the expression. _(Default: 10m)_',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    },
    {
      field: 'interval',
      description:
        'Interval to check if all static & non-static resources are ready. _(Default: 5s)_',
      scheme: 'Duration'
    }
  ]}
/>

### Templating

The `resources` and  `staticResources` fields can be templated using <CommonLink to="gotemplate">Go Templates</CommonLink>.
This is helpful in creating resources with random names. 
Example: you can setup a resource to create a pod with random name on each check run. This way you don't have to wait for the pod to be deleted on every check.

:::info
Templating the **Group**, **Version**, **Kind** & **Namespace** however isn't allowed.
:::

> <details summary="Templating resources">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details summary="Creating a pod with a unique name on every run">
```
